A flatterer is not a good companion for any man; and the public man who rises only by flattering his constituents is just as unsafe a companion for them.
A foolish optimist is only less noxious that an utter pessimist.
A great democracy has got to be progressive, or it will soon cease to be either great or a democracy ...
A heavily progressive inheritance tax--national and (heavy) only on really great fortunes going to single individuals--would be far preferable to a national income tax.
A hunter should not refrain from comfort of a wholesome sort when it is obtainable.
A lie is no more to be excused in politics than out of politics.
A man can be freed from the necessity of work only by the fact that he or his fathers before him have worked to good purpose.
A man is of no use whatever on a cattle ranch, on the contrary he is a source of expense and trouble, unless he is a first-class rider and knows the West.
A man is worthless unless he has in him a lofty devotion to an ideal, and he is worthless also unless he strives to realize this ideal by practical methods.
A man of very strong feelings and convictions in political life is almost sure to make an even larger number of violent enemies than of attached friends.
A man should no more be excused for lying on the stump than for lying off the stump.
A man to be a good citizen must first be a good bread-winner, a good husband, a good father--I hope the father of many healthy children.
A man who means well, but who only means well feebly, rarely stands the strain of serious temptation.
A man's first duty is to his own home, but he is not thereby excused from doing his duty to the State; for if he fails in this second duty it is under the penalty of ceasing to be a freeman.
A nation like an individual usually acts from complex motives.
A nation's greatness lies in its possibility of achievement in the present, and nothing helps it more than the consciousness of achievement in the past.
A nation should never fight unless forced to; but it should always be ready to fight. The mere fact that it is ready will generally spare it the necessity of fighting.
A party fit to govern must have convictions.
A poet can do much more for his country than the proprietor of a nail factory.
...a policy of words unbacked by deeds is considerably worse than useless.
A self respecting man must insist on his rights; otherwise he neither deserves nor receives the respect of others.
A sentiment that is easy and natural is far better than one which has to be artificially stimulated.
A soldier's whole life is one continuous, and unceasing battle, and there is no reason why why his responsibilities should vary with the state of the times.
A strong and wise people will study its own failures no less than its triumphs, for there is wisdom to be learned from the study of both, of the mistake as well as of the success.
About all I would say of myself is that compared with other Presidents, Prime Ministers and the like, I did some work worth doing!
Above all, I wish to see that farmers develop their strength by co-operation so that the elemental work of the soil will resume its ancient importance among us.
Above all, the administration of the Government, the enforcement of the laws, must be fair and honest.
After all, it is what the man is that counts.
After all the very highest and most fundamental work of good citizenship is to leave the next generation in right shape...
Aggressive fighting for the right is the noblest sport the world affords.
All about us there are innumerable tendencies that tell for good, and innumerable tendencies that tell for evil.
All for each, and each for all, is a good motto; but only on condition that each works with might and main to so maintain himself as not to be a burden to others.
All great fundamental truths are apt to sound rather trite, and yet in spite of their triteness they need to be reiterated over and over again.
All I ask is a square deal for every man, give him a fair chance. Do not let him wrong any one, and do not let him be wronged.
All of this is so obvious that it ought not be necessary to dwell upon it. But our people are shortsighted and have short memories.
All qualities, good and bad, are intensified and accentuated in the life of the wilderness.
All that any law can do is to give a man a decent chance; and then he will have to work out his own fate for himself ...
All that the wit of man can devise, all that the wit of man has devised, will not enable us, and never yet has enabled us, to pass in wisdom the Golden Rule.
American boyhood should be resourceful and inventive so that the American man of the future may be ever ready to help in the hour of the nation's need.
...Americanism is a matter neither of birthplace or national descent, but of the soul and of the spirit.
Americanism is a question of spirit, conviction, and purpose, not of creed or birthplace.
Americanism means the virtues of courage, honor, justice, truth, sincerity, and hardihood--the virtues that made America.
An efficient world league for peace is as yet in the future; and it may be, although I sincerely hope not, in the far future.
...and a goodly number of the Senators even of my own party have shown about as much backbone as so many angle worms.
...and a special and peculiar debt of gratitude is owing to the men and women who are engaged in teaching, who are engaged in educating the body, mind and soul of the younger generation...
...and I ask two things in connection with our foreign policy -- that we never wrong the weak and that we never flinch from the strong.
... and it is a very bad thing for every one if we make men feel that the same reward will come to those who shirk their work and those who do it.
And my life has such absurd contrasts. At one time I live in the height of luxury; and then for a month will undergo really severe toil and hardship---and I enjoy both extremes almost equally.
And so with all of us here; the days that we care to look back upon, the days we will wish to recall to the minds of our children, are the days in which we did well some work worth doing.
Any effort is to be welcomed that brings people closer together, so as to secure a better understanding among those whose walks of life are in ordinary circumstances far apart.
As a matter of fact, I have always been one of the first to urge that the country stand by the old soldier who has stood by his country in times of peril.
As a matter of fact public sentiment is apathetic and likes to talk about virtue in the abstract, but it does not want to attain the virtue if there is any trouble about it.
As a nation we have always been short-sighted in providing for the efficiency of the army in time of peace.
As a people we have played a large part in the world, and we are bent upon making our future even larger than the past.
As far as was humanly possible, the appointments and promotions were made without regard to any question except the fitness of the man and the needs of the service.
As for my name it is pronounced as if it was spelled "Rosavelt." That is in three syllables. The first syllable as if it was "Rose."
As for the nomination, I should regard it from my personal standpoint as little short of a calamity.
As I grow older I do not lose my taste for hunting, and I think my fondness for the wilderness increases; but I certainly disbelieve more and more in butchery.
...as soon as a man ceases to improve, he goes backward.
As soon as a politician gets to the point of thinking that in order to be "practical" he has got to be base, he has become a noxious member of the body politic.
As soon as they enter politics, fairly good citizens turn crooks and really good citizens become impracticable cranks.
As we found that cleaning dishes took up an awful time we only took two meals a day, which was all we wanted.
As you know, I heartily believe in certain labor unions and I would believe in all labor unions if they were wisely and honestly conducted.
As you may imagine my fur coat and buffalo bag have come in very handily.
Awful though the crime was against the President, it was a thousand fold worse crime against this Republic and against free government all over the world.
Be honest, and remember that honesty counts for nothing unless back of it lie courage and efficiency.
Be practical as well as generous in your ideals. Keep your eyes on the stars but remember to keep your feet on the ground.
Because much has been given to you, therefore we have a right to expect much from you;…
Believe you can and you're halfway there.
Bodily vigor is good, and vigor of intellect is even better, but far above both is character.
Brutality by a man to a woman, by a grown person to a little child, by anything strong toward anything good and helpless, makes my blood literally boil.
Bullies do not make brave men;
But every man of us needs help—needs more and more to be given the chance to show for himself the stuff that is in him;…
But I have had adventures enough at any rate.
But justice and generosity in a nation, as in an individual, count most when shown not by the weak but by the strong.
But neutrality in the present war is a crime against humanity and against the future of the race.
But our people, the sons of the men of the Civil War, the sons of the men who had iron in their blood, rejoice in the present and face the future high of heart and resolute of will.
But qualities may be fundamentally identical and yet so different in their manifestations under different conditions that we fail clearly to recognize even their resemblance, let alone their identity.
But the acquisition of wealth is not in the least the only test of success.
But the feeling has now been completely swallowed in my immense pride in all four of you.
But there are no words that can tell the hidden spirit of the wilderness, that can reveal its mystery, its melancholy, and its charm.
Cabot feels that I have a career.  The dear old goose actually regards me as a presidential possibility of the future.
Character is shown in peace no less than in war.
Colonel Goethals has succeeded in instilling into the men under him a spirit which elsewhere has been found only in a few victorious armies.
Commencement Day. Received my degree; I actually am an alumnus! I can not imagine any man's having a more happy and satisfactory four years than I have had.
Common sense teaches us never to pass a law that we do not think can be enforced, never to make a treaty which we do not think a nation will live up to.
Common sense teaches us not to push a good doctrine to an impossible extreme.
Common sense teaches us that high sounding words are not merely useless but mischievous, unless they are translated into deeds that correspond to them.
Common sense teaches us that the best theory is useless unless it stands the test of actual experience, and that an ounce of performance is worth a ton of promise.
Common sense teaches us to have high ideals and yet to be thoroughly practical in our efforts to realize them.
Congress has ended. It has not done anything like what it should have done, but it has done some things, and the new outcome of the session is that we have gone forward and not back.
Congress of course feels that I will never again have to be reckoned with and that it is safe to be ugly with me.
Congressmen are very often demagogues; they are very often blind partisans; they are often exceedingly short-sighted, narrow-minded, and bigoted; but they are not usually corrupt.
Courage and honesty even will not avail to save a man who was born foolish.
Dante dealt with those tremendous qualities of the human soul which dwarf all differences in outward and visible form and station.
Democracy to be successful, must mean self-knowledge, and above all, self-mastery.
Do not let play interfere with work. Work hard, and when you do play, play hard.
Do not lose the sense of proportion. Remember that in life, and above all in the very active practical, workaday life on this continent, the man who wins out must be the man who works.
Do not make the mistake of thinking that it is possible ever to call in any outside force to take the place of a man’s own individual initiative, a man’s individual capacity to do work worth doing.
...do not mind if some little time every now and then passes without my writing; I think of you just the same
Do what you can, with what you've got, where you are.
Do you want any action about those Federal officials? I will break their necks with the utmost cheerfulness if you say the word!
Don't hit a man at all if you can avoid it, but if you have to hit him, knock him out.
Doubtless on the average the most useful citizen to the community as a whole is the man to whom has been granted what the Psalmist asked for –neither poverty nor riches.
During the whole period of the marvelous growth of the United States there has been a constant and uninterrupted stream of failure going side by side with the larger stream of success.
Each man must be left free to do as his conscious dictates to him, provided he does not interfere with a like liberty of action on the part of others.
Each man must remember that he is in very truth his brother’s keeper, and to him all men should be his brothers, and all women his sisters.
Each of us is in a sense his brother's keeper; each must do what he can for him, and as a man strive to do his own work.
Efficiency in any line from war to business, is a curse if it is not guided by moral sense.
Effort and self-sacrifice are the law of worth for the man as for the woman...
Either a man is an American and nothing else, or he is not an American at all.
Envy is merely the meanest form of admiration, and a man who envies another admits thereby his own inferiority.
Ethel has been not merely absolutely devoted, but a tower of strength.
Even a necessary war I regard as a lamentable necessity. But it may be a necessity.
Ever since I became President eleven years ago I have been prepared to be shot.
Every expansion of civilization makes for peace. In other words, every expansion of a great civilized power means a victory for law, order, and righteousness.
Every father and mother here, if they are wise, will bring up their children not to shirk difficulties, but to meet them and overcome them...
Every man owes some [or part] of his time to the upbuilding of the profession to which he belongs. Alternately, "Every man owes a sacred obligation to the profession which gives him his livelihood."
Every man who has a privilege must remember that he cannot permanently keep it unless he accepts the responsibility that goes with it.
Every man who wishes well to his country is honor bound to take an active part in political life.
Everything is un-American that tends either to government by a plutocracy or government by a mob.
Experience shows that the day of rest is essential to mankind; that it is demanded by civilization as well as by Christianity.
Far and away the best prize that life offers is the chance to work hard at work worth doing.
Fellow-feeling, sympathy in the broadest sense, is the most important factor in producing a healthy political and social life.
Fenimore Cooper has preserved for always the likeness of these stark pioneer settlers and backwoods hunters…as for Leatherstocking, he is one of the undying men of story.
Few things have touched and pleased me more than the printing of my message for circulation among the blind. I thank you for the copy you sent me. I shall always preserve it.
Fit yourself for the work God has for you to do in this world and lose no time about it.
Fond tho I am of hunting and of wilderness life I could not thoroly enjoy either if I were not able from time to time to turn to my books.
Foolhardiness does not imply bravery. A prize-fighter who refused to use his guard would be looked upon as exceptionally brainless, not as exceptionally brave.
For joy or for sorrow my life has now been lived out.
For my fellow countrymen, you can never afford to forget at one moment that in the long run anything that is of benefit to one part of our republic is of necessity a benefit to all the Republic. . .
[F]or unflagging interest and enjoyment, a household of children, if things go reasonably well, certainly makes all other forms of success and achievement lose their importance by comparison.
From the days when civilized man first began to strive for self government and democracy, success has depended primarily upon the ability to steer clear of extremes.
From the greatest to the smallest, happiness and usefulness are largely found, and the joy of life is won in its deepest and truest sense, only by those who have not shirked life’s burden.
From the lowest grade of the public school to the highest form of university training, education in this country is at the disposal of every man, every woman, who chooses to work for and obtain it.
From the standpoint of common sense and decency, I think I have established the proof of what I asserted-but I gather that this has nothing to do with the law.
Gave red-haired Coolidge a tremendous thrashing in the gymnasium, boxing. Have done better than last year in my studies so far.
Gem is really a very nice small bow-wow, but mother found that in this case possession was less attractive than pursuit.
Gerard was a great lion-killer, but some of his accounts of the lives, deaths, and especially the courtships of lions, bear much less relation to actual facts than do the novels of Dumas.
Gifford Pinchot is a dear, but he is a fanatic, with an element of hardness and narrowness in his temperament, and an extremist.
Go ahead, do something and be willing to take responsibility for it.
Good citizenship is not good citizenship if only exhibited in the home.
Good for the split infinitive! Here I have been laboriously trying to avoid using it in a vain desire to look cultured; and now I shall give unbridled rein to my passions in the matter.
Good laws can do much. Good administration of the laws can do much. We must have both.
Good legislation does not secure good government, which can come only through a good administration.
Gracie is the dearest small soul you ever saw and my heart is like water before her.
Gradually and in spite of great difficulties with two of my colleagues I am getting this force into good shape. . .
Hardness of heart is a dreadful quality, but it is doubtful whether, in the long run, it works more damage than softness of head. At any rate, both are undesirable.
Have all the fun that is coming to you.
He [Kermit], and his cousin Jack, and the others of his class at dancing school have all lost so many front teeth that it looks like a class of little ruminants, varied by an occasional narwhal.
He is not as important as a group of men, when the group becomes possessed of a common and earnest conviction; but his force of direction under ordinary conditions is great.
He is useless if he is inefficient. There is nothing to be done with that type of citizen of whom all that can be said is that he is harmless.
He must be clean-minded and clean-lived, and able to hold his own under all circumstances and against all comers.
He must not be a coward, or a weakling, a bully, a shirk, or a prig.
Healthy growth cannot normally come through revolution. A revolution is sometimes necessary, but if revolutions become habitual the country in which they take place is going down-hill.
His name, his reputation, his staunch loyalty, all made him a real asset to the administration.
Honesty, rigid honesty, is a root virtue; if not present, no other virtue can atone for its lack.
Honesty is not only the best, it is the only policy that can win anything anywhere that is lasting and beneficial.
However broad and deep a man’s sympathies, however intense this activities, he need have no fear that they will be cramped by love of his native land.
Human consolation avails us but little in darkest hours; but a merciful God will in time blunt the edge of your grief as He has blunted mine.
I abhor wanton or unjust war. I believe with all my heart in peace, if peace can be obtained on terms compatible with self-respect.
I agree to the clams as inhabitants of Oyster Bay, but I violently protest against the mosquitoes—at least in our house.
I always find something companionable in a man who cares both for the outsides of a horse, and the inside of a book.
I am a genuine believer of peace; but I believe in righteousness first.
I am a genuine lover of peace. I do not, like my militaristic friends, think war a necessity in order to maintain the virile qualities.
…I am able to do all the important work, like that affecting the coal strike, just exactly as well as if I were on two legs.
I am accustomed to both work and worry and I manage to have a pretty good time in spite of everything.
I am afraid that I sometimes shock the sensibilities of our people, but I never want to do so in any matters pertaining to the morals or the religious prejudices of the people.
…I am as brown and as tough as a pine knot and feel equal to anything.
I am giving certain finishing touches to a book which Scribners will publish next spring; I shall dedicate it to you and Archie, as the opening chapters are those I wrote about our Arizona trip.
I am glad that my mouse is getting on well. You must write me about him in the next letter.
…I am hampered by the fact that I want to have my deeds always make good my words.
I am having great difficulty in getting down the fences in the public domain, because as always happens in such a case, I find the problem very complicated instead of very simple.
I am hurt and grieved at your evident jealousy of my poetic reputation.
…I am immensely interested in all this navy work, and as I am given a free hand when alone I am really accomplishing a good deal.
I am inclined to tell him, if he sees any man taking a photograph of him, to run up and smash the camera, but I do not like to do this if you disapprove.
I am keenly mortified that any Americans should insult such a people.
I am mad as a wet hen, and I know that you will pardon my democratic soul for wishing the royalties would be a trifle more considerate.
I am more and more impressed every day, not only with the man’s wonderful power and sagacity, but with his literally endless patience, and at the same time his unflinching resolution.
I am more pleased than I can say that Kermit is to be married, with such prospects of happiness.
I am more proud of you, and of the other three, than I can say. And every one who speaks to me of you boys does it with a look and in a tone that makes my heart swell.
...I am no longer a candidate and am free from the everlasting suspicion and ill natured judgment which being a candidate entails.
I am not much of a rider, so I only tackle the milder ones; Ferris and Merrifield are both splendid horsemen and the former in especial is afraid of nothing.
I am not very sure when you will get this; the postman is a wild savage who runs stark naked with the mail.
I am of course in a perfect whirl of work and have every kind of worry and trouble—but that’s what I am here for and down at bottom I enjoy it after all.
I am of course up to my ears in work, but I should never be so busy as not to be glad to hear how my kinsfolk are getting on in the world.
…I am out of doors most of the time, chopping, walking, rowing or riding – always with Edith.
I am picking up a little in the cattle business, branding a slightly larger number of calves each year, and putting back a few thousand dollars into my capital; but I shall never make good my losses.
I am President of all the people.
I am pretty happy, for I have come to the conclusion that I have got mighty nice children, all of them!
I am really proud of Kermit. It is hard to realize that the rather timid boy of four years ago has turned out a perfectly cool and daring fellow.
I am so glad it wasn't an Englishman! I should have hated that. And I am glad it was a naval officer.
I am thoroughly alive to the tremendous responsibilities of my position.
I am trying, however feebly, to make men better, as well as to get better laws, better administration of the laws; and the first is by far the most important.
I am very anxious to see the squadron of iron clads maneuvering, and at gun practice.
I am very fond of dancing; it is my favourite amusement, excepting horseback riding.
I am very glad our house has an heir at last!
I am very glad that all you children grew up when Sagamore Hill was still in the midst of an old American country-side.
I am very glad to have been in this position; I think I have done good work, and a man ought to show that he can go out into the world and hold his own with men;…
I am very much obliged to you for your watermelon.
I begin to think that this particular branch of the Roosevelt family is getting to be numerous enough.
I believe in a strong executive; I believe in power, but I believe that responsibility should go with power, and that it is not well that the strong executive should be a perpetual executive.
I believe in courage, hardihood, the spirit that dares, the spirit that endures, the spirit that drives to battle, …
I believe in property rights; I believe that normally the rights of property and humanity coincide; but sometimes they conflict, and where this is so I put human rights above property rights.
I believe in the eight hour day. It is the ideal toward which we should tend, but I believe that there must be common sense used in achieving the ideal.
I believe in the men who take the next step; not those who theorize about the 200thstep.
I believe in the stork and I want to keep it up.
I believe in work and I believe in play. Play hard while you play; and when you work don’t play at all. That is good advice for children, and it is good advice for grown folks too.
I believe Taft will be elected; but Bryan is much stronger than he was, and mankind even in America is subject to fits of great folly.
I believe that Cleveland ought now to recognize Cuban independence and interfere; sending our fleet promptly to Havana.
I believe that human rights are supreme over all other rights; that wealth should be the servant, not the master of the people.
I believe that inherited instinct must be supplemented by some means of communication among animals.
I believe that such an effort made moderately and sanely, but sincerely and with utter scorn for words that are not made good by deeds, will be productive of real and lasting international good.
I believe that the average American citizen wishes nothing save what he can honestly obtain for himself by hard work and decent living.
I believe that the wisdom of all of us amounts to more than the wisdom of any one of us…
I believe thoroughly in the sound and vigorous body. I believe still more in the vigorous mind. And I believe most of all in what count for more than body, for more than mind, and that is character.
I believe with all my heart that the better we learn to know one another the less chance there will be of ever any trouble coming between any of us.
I believe with all of my heart in the Monroe Doctrine.
I believed, therefore, that the time had come when it was greatly to the interest of both combatants to have peace, and when therefore it was possible to get both to agree to peace.
I can neither explain nor justify why I like some novels and do not like others;…
I can paddle and row about in the rowboat now.
I cannot give a position to anyone simply because he is a friend and I would like to do him a good turn.
I care nothing for his future, and nothing for my own. But I care immensely for this country, and I wish to have it a land of which my grandchildren will be proud to be citizens.
I congratulate the country that we have people of your stamp on it. I am glad to see all of you, especially the babies. I have got quite a collection of them myself.
I congratulate you! That is the kind of family I like to see a good American citizen possess.
...I congratulate you especially upon the type of manhood and womanhood you developed in the state. This is what counts.
I congratulate you upon all you do in wheat growing and stock raising, but above all, the type of men and women you grow.
I could have done nothing there; whereas now I have been a real force, and I think I have helped the cause of good government and of the party.
I could have received on my birthday no present I should have appreciated more than the gift, or rather the gifts, you have sent me – the picture of Jefferson and his framed autograph letter.
I'd give all I'm worth to be just two days in supreme command. I'd be perfectly willing then to resign, for I'd have things going so that nobody could stop them.
I disliked, because of the wholly impossible collection of animals met by that worthy family.
I do appoint you to visit the Isthmus of Panama without unnecessary delay, to ascertain the present condition of the work on the canal there…
I do not believe in mischief-doing in school hours...
I do not believe in neutrality between right and wrong.
I do not believe in violent revolutions, but I do believe in steady and healthy growth in the right direction.
I do not believe you could drive with a club any of my children away from Sagamore Hill this summer. They love the place and now they do not see very much of it.
I do not know of anything that there is lying around loose except advice. Almost everything else you have got to work for.
I do not know that I shall go hunting again while I am President, for all kinds of people crowd after me, and it is too much like hunting with a 4th of July procession.
I do not like hysteria, especially in a grown man. There are plenty of evils, any number of them. Not one of them will be cured by hysterics.
I do not much admire the Senate, because it is such a helpless body when efficient work for good is to be done.
I do not think ever a man loved a woman more than I love her...
…I do not think that Mrs. Roosevelt could stand another pet in the house at present!
I do not think that we ought to take a moving picture machine along.  I think we should be hampered by having it along, and I do not think it would serve a sufficiently useful purpose.
I do not think the average American multimillionaire is a very high type, and I do not much admire him. But in his place he is well enough.
I do not think you would like them as they kiss too much.
I don't think I have ever made as many consecutive bad shots as I have this week...I am disgusted with myself.
I don't think the worst politicians or business men reach the level of infamy attained by so many newspaper men.
I don't care how patriotic a man was, if he had a slight tendency to run away he was no good.
I don't for a moment believe that we can turn back the wheels of progress.
I don't think that any family has ever enjoyed the White House more than we have.
I dread very much taking up the duties of police commissioner, though I have enough appreciation of the joy of battle to take some comfort out of the duties when they once begin.
I dream of men who take the next step instead of worrying about the next thousand steps.
I enjoy talking to the dear old fellow more than I can tell; he is such a modest high souled old fellow that I just love and respect him.
I feel about all my children that it is not wise that they should live with us, but that they cannot possibly make visits that are too long.
I feel I have been a useful citizen, and, though this is a point of very much less importance, I think that in the end decent people will realize that I have done a good deal.
I feel very deeply on a great many subjects, as to which I find my powers of expression wholly inadequate.
I felt as if I knew most of them already, for they might have walked out of the pages of Kipling.
I felt at once that he had bad news, and, sure enough, he handed me a telegram saying that the President’s condition was much worse and that I must come to Buffalo immediately.
I have a great deal of faith in the average American citizen. I think he is a pretty good fellow, and I think he can generally get on with the other average American citizen if he will only know it.
I have a horror of the  people who bark but don't bite.
I have a very strong feeling that it is a Presidentâ€™s duty to get on with Congress if he possibly can, and that it is a reflection upon him if he and Congress come to a complete break.
I have always thought that, take it on the average, the citizen whom I most respected was the mother of a large family who brought them up well; ...
I have been literally loaded down with gifts of every kind and description. I fear there are only a few of them to which mother will consent to give house room...
I have been reading Chaucer with industry lately, and as I gradually become used to his language I get to enjoy him and more; but I must say I think he is altogether needlessly filthy.
I have certain playmates among my friends here in Washington and with them I occasionally take long walks, or rather scrambles through the woods and over the rocks.
I have faith in your energy, your perseverance, your ability, and your power to force yourself to the front when you have once found out and taken your line.
I have given the best there was in me.
I have had a most amusing and interesting time here, but literally, there hasn't been but a five minutes free.
I have had all kinds of experiences with the envoys and with their Governments, and to the two latter I finally had to write time after time as a very polite but also very insistent Dutch Uncle.
I have had all the honor any man can have from holding the office of President.
I have had rather too much of dinners lately; we have been to a perfect string of them, and I always eat and drink too much.
I have had the crown, I have had everything possible, and there is nothing left for me to grasp at.
I have had the usual difficulties in my civil service work this week; our great enemy is that suave, able, timid, and quite lacking-in-principle Carlisle.
I have just had to descend with severity upon Quentin because he put the unfortunate Tom into the bathtub and then turned on the water.
I have long made up my mind that any successful step I take must be taken on my own responsibility.
I have never hesitated to criticize Jefferson. He was infinitely below Hamilton: I think the worship of Jefferson a discredit to my country; and I have small use for the ordinary Jeffersonian.
I have never seen anything like the sordid baseness of the attitude of the average businessman in this campaign and the utter folly of the average intellectual creature of Mugwump antecedents.
I have no power to deal with it myself. Anything that can be done by the national government must be as the result of legislative action.
I have not looked at a newspaper since I left home.
I have not only been deeply impressed with your extraordinary skill in this formidable art of self-defense, but also by your invariable and courteous care.
I have studied history a good deal and it is a matter of rather grim amusement to me to listen to the praise bestowed on our national past at the expense of our national present.
I have to remember, in order to keep myself fairly good tempered, that even although the wild asses of the desert are mainly in our ranks, our opponents have a fairly exclusive monopoly of the swine.
I heard the western meadow lark beside the train up to the time we reached Iowa…
I hold that a great and masterful people forfeits its title to greatness if it shirks any work because that work is difficult and responsible.
I hope the Republican Party won't make it impossible for decent men to support them.
I hope we can get an expeditionary force over there, and I hope we shall have a colored regiment in that force.
I know my fellow Americans well, they are brave and honest, but sometimes they are misguided; and, as with all people, they are subject to fits of reaction.
I'm as strong as a bull moose and you can use me to the limit.
I make a few speeches; I loathe making them; among other reasons because I always fear to back up the Administration too strongly lest in turn another somersault.
I meant literally what I said – that all I wanted was a square deal for the negro. If he is fit to vote by the test we apply to a white man, let him vote. If he is unfit, don’t.
I merely propose that we simplify machinery which, with the growth of the nation, has become hopelessly cumbersome and unwieldy.
I murdered my grandmother this morning.
I need not tell you to do your best to cultivate ability for concentrating your thought on whatever work you are given to do…
I never became a good roper, nor more than an average rider, according to ranch standards.
I never did one thing personally that was not as straight as a string...
I only regret that I cannot make the address in your own beautiful tongue. Unfortunately I am not well enough educated, but, thank heavens! my children are getting a better education.
I preach to you, then, my countrymen, that our country calls not for the life of ease but for the life of strenuous endeavor.
I put myself in the way of things happening, and they happened.
I read Turks and Mongols with such thoroughness and assiduity that at the end it was dangling out out of the covers.
I realize very thoroughly the absolutely ephemeral nature of the hold I have upon the people, and a very real and positive hostility I have excited among the politicians.
I really believe my men would follow me anywhere now; and all the regulars treat us as standing entirely on their plane.
I really like her; but I think that her much-battered old spouse is rather a bore.
I saw all those men; I consulted with them; I tried to get on with them; but I did not let them be my masters. And whenever there was a line-up between them and the people, I stood for the people.
I shall pray for you every night; good bye my doubly dear wife.
I shall read the “Poor Priest” with the greatest interest, but I do not know whether I shall try the experiment of telling exactly what I think of it or not.
I should like mightily to see the great African fauna, and to kill one or two rhino or buffalo and some of the big antelopes, with the chance of a shot at a lion.
I sleep, eat and work as I never could do in ten years’ time in the city.
...I speak French, I am sorry to say, as if it were a non-Aryan tongue, without tense or gender although with agglutinative vividness and fluency.
I stand for decency and humanity; and I stand against crime and brutality committed in the name of liberty exactly as I stand against crime and brutality committed in the name of religion;…
I still read a number of Scott’s novels over and over again.
I tell you, the more I see of public and social life, the more I believe in a genuine democracy of spirit, and the more I feel that the least desirable form of an aristocracy is a plutocracy.
I therefore most earnestly advise that the Russian and Japanese plenipotentiaries meet and confer to see whether it is not possible for them to agree as to terms of peace.
I think Murray Butler is about the cheapest fake there is anywhere around. He is a wretched creature.
I think our citizens are more and more realizing that they wish to perpetuate the things that are of use and also the things that are of beauty.
I think that no greater calamity can happen now to this country at present than to stop building up the navy.
I think Washington will be a rather better winter home than New York for the children and I believe Edith will enjoy it.
I think we have made a particularly good record as a volunteer organization, and certainly I am as proud of these men as I well can be, and I believe they would follow me anywhere.
I thoroughly enjoy life, and believe in doing so.
I urge you to have the widest toleration in matters of opinion, but to have no toleration at all when it comes to matters of the Ten Commandments and the Golden Rule.
I usually tell Mr. Loeb that he is the ant and I am the butterfly, especially when I play tennis outside the office, while he is still working inside; but this week we have both of us been ants.
I very earnestly believe in Peace. I will always work for it; but it must be the Peace of Righteousness…
I want to avoid being a fool of the goo-goo or mugwump kind and be perfectly practical, and face men and events as they are. At the same time I want to make things better and not worse.
I want to include everybody, so as to rub up their memories about the existence of a man named Theodore Roosevelt, who is going to bring a pretty Boston wife back to New York next winter.
I want to say that if anything is right, I don’t care who backs it up…
I want to see that if possible we never appoint a man who desires the position as a soft job.
I want you to tell him everything, good, bad, and indifferent. Don't spare me the least bit. Give him the very worst side of me you can think of, and the very best side of me that is truthful.
I was just in time to see the last of the real wilderness life and real wilderness hunting.
I was much put out at the Scribners changing the name of the book; for it seemed to me very much a change for the worse.
I went down in it chiefly because I did not like to have the officers and enlisted men think I wanted them to try things I was reluctant to try myself.
I wish to Heaven I were President at this moment!
I wish to see our people hardy, vigorous, strong, able to hold their own in whatever test may arise. I wish to see them able to work and able to play hard.
I won't be able to afford to take them on long hunting trips in the west, unless they can do as I do, and pay for them with their pens...
I wonder if I won’t find everything in life too big for my abilities. Well, time will tell.
I wonder if you know how much good you do when you go into this active, practical work. It is a help to every man in the country who is striving for decent politics.
I worship you so that it seems almost desecration to touch you.
I would not do wrong to the great corporation, but I don't intend to rely only the big corporation's good nature to see that the corporation doesn't do harm against us.
I would not for all the world have had him fail fearlessly to do his duty, and to tread his allotted path, high of heart; even altho (sic) it led to the gates of death.
If a man does not have an ideal and try to live up to it, then he becomes a mean, base and sordid creature, no matter how successful.
If a war should occur while I am still physically fit, I should certainly try to raise a brigade, and if possible a division, of cavalry, mounted riflemen, such as those in my regiment ten years ago.
…if any friends of ours wish to commemorate us after death the way to do it is by some expression of good deeds to those who are still living.
If ever there was a Heaven-sent treasure to small boys, that sand-box is the treasure.
If I finish anything by Miss Austen I have a feeling that duty performed is a rainbow to the soul.
If I were President, this country would now be at war with Germany, unless Germany had completely backed down, which, as a matter of fact, I think she probably would have done.
If in peace the soldier and the sailor abandon themselves to ease and sloth, when war comes they will go down before rivals who have been less self-indulgent.
If next November my countrymen confirm at the polls the action of the convention you represent, I shall, under Providence, work with an eye single to the welfare of all our people.
If the average man has the right stuff in him we will succeed. If he has not the right stuff in him, then you cannot get it out of him, because it is not there.
If the utterly unexpected happens and I am nominated, I may very probably be defeated, in which case I shall be not only assailed but derided.
If there is any human being in this country with whom I do not sympathize, it is the type of office individual who has a roll of red tape in place of a gizzard.
If they fail at first, and if they fail again, let them merely make up their minds to redouble their efforts and perhaps alter their methods; but let them keep on working.
If we are beaten my own disappointment will not be a drop in the ocean to my bitter regret and alarm for the Nation.
If we are men and not children, if we have the right stuff of mankind in us, we will look facts in the face, however ugly they be, and profit by them.
If we are not all of us Americans and nothing else, scorning to divide along lines of section, of creed, or of national origin, then the Nation itself will crumble to dust.
If you are rich and are worth your salt, you will teach your sons that though they may have leisure, it is not to be spent in idleness.
If you like the zebra skin one fourth as much as I like the rocking chair, I am more than pleased; I use it all the time. It is just the right shape and kind.
If you live in the presence of miracles you gradually get accustomed to them.
Immediately after leaving college I went to the legislature. I was the youngest man there, and I rose like a rocket.
In a democracy it is essential that each man should think of his rights but it is even more essential that he thinks of his duties.
In a republic, to be successful we must learn to combine intensity of conviction with a broad tolerance of difference of conviction.
In a very little over four months I shall see you, now.  When you get this three fourths of the time will have gone.  How very happy we have been for the last 23 years!
...in addition to courage and honesty we need the saving grace of common sense, for without that a man will make but scant headway in the world.
In all the world there could be no better material for soldiers than that afforded by these grim hunters of the mountains, these wild rough riders of the plains.
In American affairs I treat each of my fellow-citizens, whatever his creed, whatever his wealth or poverty, whatever his occupation, exactly and precisely on his conduct.
In any moment of decision, the best thing you can do is the right thing, the next best thing is the wrong thing, and the worst thing you can do is nothing.
In international matters to make believe that nations are equal when they are not equal is as productive of far-reaching harm as to make the same pretence about individuals in a community.
In life as in a football game, the principle to follow is: Hit the line hard; don’t foul and don’t shirk, but hit the line hard.
In my case the exploration was its own reward...
In order to get good citizenship the average man must have honesty, he must have courage, and united to them he must have the saving grace of common sense.
In ordinary life we are so apt to be divided by artificial distinctions. Our lives are so hemmed round that we often do not have the chance to test a man on his worth as a man.
In our modern industrial civilization there are many and grave dangers to counter balance the splendors and the triumphs.
In private life no human being thinks it to the credit of any man that he makes a promise unless the promise is kept.
In the evening Mama told us incidents of he[r] early life and adventures of my ancestors in the revolution war [sic].
In the long run, the only kind of help that really avails is the help which teaches a man to help himself.
In the long run that is what counts-the stuff the man has in him.
In the morning we went to the church of the Holy Sepulcher....What I did awe for, was to think that on the very hill which the church covers was the place where Jesus was crucified.
In the soft springtime the stars were glorious in our eyes each night before we fell asleep; and in the winter we rode through blinding blizzards, when the driven snow-dust burnt our faces.
In this country we cannot permanently succeed except upon the basis of treating each man on his worth as a man.
In this life, no matter how much energy and ability and foresight we show, we are often certain to be trampled upon by men and events.
In this part of Africa, where flowers bloom and birds sing all the year round, there is no such burst of bloom and song as in the northern spring and early summer.
In time of trouble, the unconsciousness of children is often a great comfort.
Incidentally I may add that I do not know a white man of the South who is as good a man as Booker Washington today.
Inevitably and naturally ignorant good men, under the lead of men who are either ignorant nor good, tend to hold me responsible for this position.
Instead of speaking softly and carrying a big stick, President Wilson spoke bombastically and carried a dish rag.
Intellect is fit to be the most useful of servants; but it is an evil master, unless itself mastered by character.
Isn't it nice to think how closely our two nations have come together this year? We must make every effort to see that they stay together.
It can be made equally true in industry by leaders with a like generosity of soul, and the results will be equally beneficial…
…it does not make any difference what work the man is doing if he does it well.
...it does not seem to me that it would be honorable for a man who has consistently advocated a warlike policy not to be willing himself to bear the brunt of carrying out that policy.
It gives me an awful idea of what a floating hell of filth, disease, tyranny and cruelty a warship was in those days.
It has been as hideous a tragedy all through as one often sees.
It has been difficult for me to keep every manifestation of interest in abeyance, but I have been most scrupulous to do so lest I should offend some timid mugwump or independent democrat.
It has been emphatically a man’s work, worth doing from every aspect.
It is a bad thing for a nation to raise and to admire a false standard of success; and there can be no falser standard than that set by the deification of material well-being in and for itself.
It is a curious fact that while the ownership of a fishing rod tends to produce a feeling of respectability no such effect is brought about by a gun, especially if said gun be rusty.
...it is a dreadful thing to me to see us as a nation mishandling ourselves as we have been doing.
It is a good lesson for nations and individuals to learn never to hit it if can be helped and never to hit soft.
It is a good thing to have a sound body, it is a better thing to have a sound mind; but what we need is that which is great than body or mind – character.
It is a good thing to keep in memory the greatness of the nation's past; but it is only a good thing if it spurs us on to make greater the nation's present.
It is a good thing to look back upon what has been said and compare it with the record of what has actually been done.
It is a melancholy fact that many of the worst laws put upon the statute-books have been put there with the best of intentions by thoroughly well-meaning people.
It is a poor type of school nowadays that hasn’t got a good play ground attached.
It is a very desolate place, high barren hills, scantily clad with grass, and here and there, in sheltered places a few stunted cottonwood trees.
It is above all to the interests of the men of great wealth that the people at large should understand that they also have to obey the law.
It is almost as irritating to be patronized as to be wronged.
…it is always true that while education is not all, without it we would not amount to much.
It is an even graver offence to sin against the commonwealth than to sin against an individual.
It is an incalculable added pleasure to any one’s sum of happiness if he or she grows to know, even slightly and imperfectly, how to read and enjoy the wonder-book of nature
It is an incalculable added pleasure to any one's sum of happiness if he or she grows to know, even slightly and imperfectly, how to read and enjoy the wonder-book of nature.
It is awfully hard work keeping one’s temper in public life. Such infamous lies are told.
It is bitter that the young should die; for the old it is natural.
…it is by no means easy to combine honesty and efficiency; and yet it is absolutely necessary, in order to do any work really worth doing.
It is by no means necessary that a great nation should always stand on the heroic level. But no nation can be called really great unless it can sometimes rise to the heroic mood.
It is easy to say what we ought to do, but it is hard to do it
It is enough to give any one a sense of sardonic amusement to see the way in which the people generally, not only in my own country but elsewhere, gauge the work purely by the fact that is succeeded.
It is enough to give anyone a sense of sardonic amusement to see the way in which the people generally, not only in my own country but elsewhere, gauge the work purely by the fact that it succeeded.
It is hard to fail, but it is worse never to have tried to succeed. In this life we get nothing save by effort.
It is idle now to argue whether women can play their part in politics, because in this convention we saw the accomplished fact...
It is impossible to get good government unless full recognition of the rights of others goes hand in hand with insistence upon one’s own rights.
It is no easy job being president. But I am thoroughly enjoying it and I think so far I have done pretty well.
It is not easy for a masterful man to remember the limitations of good men who are under him; not to speak of being patient with dull or suspicious or cantankerous men. But it must be done.
It is not enough to parry a blow. The surest way to prevent its repetition is to return it.
It is not good to be a slave of names.
It is of course a mere truism to say that the stability and future welfare of our institutions of government depend upon the grade of citizenship turned out from our public schools.
It is of course the merest truism to say that a party is of use only so far as it serves the nation, and that he serves his party best who serves the nation best.
It is only through labor and painful effort, by grim energy and resolute courage, that we move on to better things.
It is really a perfectly delightful little place; the nicest little place of its kind you could imagine.
It is sheer unmanliness and cowardice to shrink from the contest because at first there is failure, or because the work is difficult or repulsive.
It is the clear duty of the United States to make it evident in all its relations that it treats these republics on a basis of full equality and of mutual self-respect.
It is the doer of deeds who actually counts in the battle for life, and not the man who looks on and says how the fight ought to be fought, without himself sharing the stress and the danger.
It is unpatriotic to refuse to do the best possible, merely because the people have not put us in the position to do what we regard as the very best.
…it is very jolly to get my books again. They made me completely happy this afternoon, taken in conjunction with my easy chair and a bright coal fire.
It must be distinctly understood that under no circumstances will you quote me. What I say must be said over my own signature and not second hand.
It seems to me folly to throw away one's vote or to fail to use it in the only effective manner.
It seems to me that one of the great tests of civilization is the refusal by great powers to jeopardize the rights of weaker, well-behaved powers.
It shall be my purpose, so far as I am given strength, to administer my office with an eye single to the welfare of all the people of this great commonwealth.
It takes more than that to kill a Bull Moose.
It therefore behooves us of this Republic to show that we possess the intelligence, the strength and the foresight to put discipline at the service of liberty, at the service of democracy.
...it was a marvel to me to see how easily our mustangs scrambled over the frightful ground which we crossed, while trying to get up to the grassy plateaus, over which we could gallop.
It was apparently perfectly trackless, without a tree or mark of any kind by which to go; we went by the sun purely.
It was like going up and down enormous stairs on your hands and knees for nine hours.
It was lovely out in the country, with the trees at their very best of fall coloring.
It was lovely to sit there in the rocking chairs and hear all the birds by daytime and at night the whippoorwills and owls and little forest folk.
It was probable that hardship lay in the future; but the day was our own, and the day was pleasant.
It would be but a poor-spirited man who would resent such a letter as yours or fail to be moved as I am moved both by the spirit which prompts it and by its references to me individually.
It would be hopeless to try to enumerate all the books I read or even all the kinds.
It would not do me any good to pretend that I like Hamlet as much as Macbeth, when, as a matter of fact, I don’t.
John Milton said it all in his defense of freedom of the press: "Let truth and error grapple. Who ever knew truth to be beaten in a fair fight."
Just as essential as strength and courage, are honesty and fair dealing.
Just as in battle it is the man behind the gun who counts most, so in civil life it is the average citizen back of the law who counts most.
Just at the moment I am anxiously awaiting details as to the smashing overthrow of the Russian fleet.
…justice and generosity in a nation, as in an individual, count most when shown not by the weak but by the strong.
Keep your eyes on the stars, but remember to keep your feet on the ground.
Kermit and I have been given two interesting watches; the hands and a spot over each number have radium on them; so that it shines and we can tell the time in the dark.
Kit Carson and his comrades were men of real marks, and their work was of the utmost consequence, and should not be allowed to be forgotten.
Labor Day is rightly an American holiday, for every American who is worth his salt works, and if he doesn’t there is something wrong with him.
Last Saturday night we had five boys up here and had a perfectly beautiful time, and made a proportionate amount of noise, but did not break anything.
Learn by your mistakes.
Let me insist again, for fear of possible misconstruction, upon the fact that our duty is twofold, and that we must raise others while we are benefiting ourselves.
Let the audience see you smile always, because I feel that your nature shines out so transparent when you do smile--you big, generous, high-minded fellow.
Let us keep untarnished, unstained, the honor of the flag.
Let us make it evident that we intend to do justice. Then let us make it equally evident that we will not tolerate injustice being done to us in return.
…let us remember that words count only when they give expression to deeds or are to be translated into them.
Let us try to level up, but let us beware of the evil of leveling down.
Like every other efficient instrument—like courage or love of peace—discipline can be used to promote evil. But that is no argument against using it to promote good.
Like myself, you have a wife who will persist in refusing to think of herself.
Little Edie is the busiest person imaginable, and runs around exactly as if she was a small mechanical toy.
Liverpool has all the dirt of New York (and a good deal of its own besides).
LOVE MERCY; treat prisoners well; succor the wounded; treat every woman as if she was your sister; care for the little children, and be tender with the old and helpless.
Mark Twain at his best stands a little apart.
May all good fortune attend you and yours throughout the year that is opening.
McKinley rather distrusted me, and Platt actively hated me; it was Cabot’s untiring energy and devotion which put me in; and Long really wanted me.
Meanwhile I have enlisted forty men, for the most part gentlemen rankers from Harvard, Yale, the Knickerbocker club, etc., and ship them off tomorrow night.
Men must be judged with reference to the age in which they dwell, and the work they have to do.
Mere desire to do right can no more by itself make a good statesman than it can make a good general.
Mockingbirds are, to my mind, the most attractive birds that there are.
More and more we are learning that to love one's country above all others is in no way incompatible with respecting and wishing well to all others.
Moreover, if the Monroe doctrine means anything, it means that European powers are not to acquire additional territorial interests on this side of the waters.
Moreover, let them realize the truth, which is that for all your gentleness and kindliness and generous good nature, there never existed  man who was  better fighter when the need arose.
Most emphatically I am not your enemy ; if I were you would know it
Most emphatically I should regret being the cause of injustice to any one and would never want any recommendation of mine heeded if it means injustice to somebody else.
Most of the great captains of war have been leaders who made their glory also the glory of the men who followed them, and who felt for these men a peculiar comradeship.
Mother has gone off for nine days, and as usual I am acting as vice-mother.
Mother is a great deal more pleased with it than any child with any toy I ever saw...
Mother is too pretty and cunning for anything.
Mrs. Maddox was "a very capable and forceful woman, with sound ideas of justice and abundantly well able to hold her own. "
Much good has gone hand in hand with the evil of the tremendous industrial development of the day.
Much will depend upon the outcome at Baltimore, but I am in this fight to the end, win or lose, no matter who is nominated there.
My being in politics is in a sense an accident; and it is only a question of time when I shall be forced out.
My books make me feel quite at home.
My disappointment at not going myself was down at bottom chiefly reluctance to see you four, in whom my heart was wrapped, exposed to danger white I stayed at home in do-nothing ease and safety.
My dread is that, having no regular business or trade, I shall someday soon find myself an idle man.
My fellow citizens, the truth as regards in the present situation is simply that the American people now have to decide whether or not they will play the part of a great Nation nobly and well.
My fellow countrymen, bad laws are evil things, good laws are necessary; and a clean, fearless, common-sense administration of the laws is even more necessary;
My great concern is, of course, to break the famine; but I must not be drawn into any violent step which would bring reaction and disaster afterward.
My hat is in the ring, the fight is on, and I am stripped to the buff.
...my head will not be turned by what I well know was a mainly accidental success.
My impression is that we had better broaden the locks to 125 feet.
My memory is that at that time I urged that Spain should be notified that we would treat the sailing of the Spanish armed vessels and torpedo boats as an act of war, and take our measures accordingly.
My whole work brings me in contact with every class of people in New York, as no other work possibly could; and I get a glimpse of the real life of the swarming millions.
Nevertheless, I do not think there is any one of us – not even the dead – who would not gladly have given everything to take part in doing what we have done.
Next year you must come to the Yellowstone with me; then I can start you home, and take a little hunt after you have gone, and so not be away from you so long.
Nine tenths of wisdom consists in being wise in time!
Nine-tenths of wisdom is to be wise in time, and at the right time...
No action by the State can do more than supplement the initiative of the individual...
No boy can afford to neglect his work, and with a boy work, as a rule, means study.
No boy can effectively champion what is right unless he trains himself so as to stand up fearlessly against what is wrong.
No distinction is made in the examinations, or in any proceedings under the [Civil Service] Commission, between men and women. They compete on precisely the same basis.
No great success can ever be won save by accepting the fact that, normally, sacrifice of some kind must come in winning the success.
No greater wrong can ever be done than to put a good man at the mercy of a bad, while telling him not to defend himself or his fellows; in no way can the success of evil be made surer and quicker…
No horse could by any chance get across; we men have a boat, and even then it is most laborious carrying it out to the water; we work like arctic explorers.
No law that ever was devised or ever can be devised will make a coward brave, or a fool wise, or a weakling strong.
No law will take the place of courage, honesty, and common sense.
No man, not even the soldier who does his duty, stands quite on the level with the wife and mother who has done her duty.
No man and no woman really worthy of the name can care for the life spent solely or chiefly in the avoidance of risk and trouble and labor.
No man can be a really good citizen unless he takes a lively interest in politics from a high standpoint.
No man can be guaranteed success. Men who are not prepared for labor and effort and rough living, for persistence and self-denial, are out of place in a new country.
No man can render very great service to himself, and usually no man can render any service at all to the nation, unless he acts in a spirit of common sense.
No man is fit to live unless he is ready to quit life for adequate cause.
No man is justified in doing evil on the ground of expediency.
No man is more apt to be mistaken than the prophet of evil.
...no man should be held excusable if he does not perform what he promises, unless for the best and most sufficient reason.
No matter how honest a man may be, if he is timid there is but little chance of his being useful to the body politic.
No one has arisen to do for the far western plains and Rocky Mountain trappers quite what Hermann Melville did for the South Sea whaling folk in Omoo and Moby Dick.
No one in the navy should be allowed to forget that a seaman's prime duty is to be at sea, and that all other work is merely in preparation for this.
No one of us can make the world move on very far, but it moves at all only when each one of a very large number does his duty.
No one quality or virtue is enough; vigor, honesty, sound judgement – all are needed in order to succeed.
No President ever enjoyed himself in the Presidency as much as I did; and no President after leaving the office took as much joy in life as I am taking.
No prosperity and no glory can save a nation that is rotten at heart.
Nobody cares how much you know until they know how much you care.
Not only should there be complete liberty in matters of religion and opinion, but complete liberty for each man to lead his life as he desires, provided only that in so he does not wrong his neighbor.
Not the fairest cultivation ever appeals to me quite as much as the wild loneliness of the wilderness.
Nothing could offer higher promise for the future of our country than an intelligent interest in the best ideals of citizenship, its privileges and duties, among the students of our common schools.
Nothing is better for us than to keep in mind the great deeds done by the Americans in past times to act as a spur to us in our turn as the chance arises to do our duty.
Now, as Governor, I can achieve something, but as Vice-President I should achieve nothing.
Now, fortunately I always play the political game with the cards on the table, so far as any honest and intelligent man who wants to know the truth is concerned.
Now, there are in our civic and social life very much worse creatures than snobs, but none more contemptible.
Now how shall I acknowledge the box containing the Buddha, and the big white silk Katag? What kind of a present should I send him in return? I have not the vaguest idea what the Tale Lama would like.
Now I am being much overpraised by everybody, and though I suppose I like it, it makes me feel uncomfortable too.
Now I hold that it is not worth while being a big nation, if you cannot do a big task; ...
Now of course you may not keep Flora anyhow. But if you wish to lose her, continue to be an infrequent correspondent.
Now our republic has as one of its cornerstones the education of the citizen.
Now the average man's mental condition is certain to oscillate between too much and too little hope and confidence, and no legislation can ever be devised that will prevent this oscillation.
Now we have ample wherewith to prepare a navy capable of upholding the honor of the nation and a system of coast defense adequate to our needs.
Of all miserable creatures the idler in whatever rank of society is in the long run the most miserable. I do not care from which end he comes.
…of course when one does not do what one ought to, the excuse that one erred from thoughtlessness instead of wrong purpose is of small avail.
Often by the time I get to five o’clock in the afternoon I will be feeling like a stewed owl…
Oh, my darling, I do so hope and pray I can make you happy. I shall try very hard to be unselfish and sunny tempered as you are, and I shall save you from every care I can.
On the frontier, more than anywhere else, a man needs to rely on himself and to remember that on every frontier there are innumerable failures.
On the Upper Missouri the grizzly is to-day, as I have found personally, one of the wariest of animals—a century ago Lewis and Clarke[sic.] found it one of the most ferocious, fearless and least shy.
Once about every six or seven years we have a season when these storms follow one another almost without interval throughout the winter months, and then the loss among the stock is frightful.
Once Papa's pony tried to buck him off when he was carrying a gun; papa stayed on, but he had to drop the gun.
One of the features of my holiday which I have most enjoyed has been the fun with the children. I took twelve of them on a picnic the other day.
One of the Garfield boys slipped into a small brook, and Mr. Gifford Pinchot fell into the creek, and we were all of us plastered with mud.
One of the prime dangers of civilization has always been its tendency to cause the loss of virile fighting virtues, of the fighting edge.
One treasure, by the way, is a very small badger, which I named Josiah, and he is now called Josh for short. He is very cunning and I hold him in my arms and pet him.
...only a third party will relieve the honest and far-sighted man of the necessity of voting either for the puppet of the machine Republicans or for the highly undesirable Democratic Party.
Only that woman is self-respecting who performs her full duty to the commonwealth and the race, in the same time that she demands the respect and the fair treatment which of right should be hers.
Optimism is a good characteristic, but if carried to an excess it becomes foolishness.
Order without liberty and liberty without order are equally destructive; …
…oregon grape blossoms and yellow mat. Many flowers. Did not see blue columbine, the state flower.
Our aim is to secure the real and not the nominal rule of the people.
Our country has been populated by pioneers; and therefore it has in it more energy, more enterprise, more expansive power than any other in the wide world.
Our country will never be safe until the time comes when it will be an insult to any man in public place to think it necessary to say that he is honest.
Our nation in the future is going to do well, as I know it will do well, because of the training of the children in whose hands twenty years hence the destiny of the nation will lie.
Our Navy is the surest guarantee of peace and the cheapest insurance against war….
Our public school system is broad at the base, but goes upwards so that those who wish are able to get the highest type of education.
Our stay in Paris was mainly devoted to the intricacies of dress buying.
Our system of government is the best in the world for a people able to carry it on.
Our troubles were only begun.
Our whole future of course depends primarily upon how the next generation turns out.
Ours is a government of equal rights under the law, guaranteeing those rights to each man so long as he in his turn refrains from wronging his brother.
Pacifism has proved the most powerful possible anesthetic of patriotism, courage and manliness. Our present business is to restore to the nation these virtues.
Patriotism is an affair of deeds, and patriotic words are good only in so far as they result in deeds.
…patriotism means service to the nation; and only those who render such service are fit to enjoy the privilege of citizenship.
Peace is a goddess only when she comes with a sword girt on thigh.
Perhaps there is no more important component of character than steadfast resolution.
Personally, the life of the Four Hundred, in its typical form, strikes me as being as flat as stale champagne.
Personally I prefer virtue, but if one deviates from virtue then for Heaven’s sake take the opposite course thoroughly.
Please give the children my thanks for their Christmas greeting. I send them in return my best wishes for a Merry Christmas and for their future welfare and happiness.
Please put out the light.
Politics here are in chaos. I should be sure that either party would be defeated if it were not for the fact that the other is its opponent.
Popularity is a good thing, but it is not something for which to sacrifice studies or athletics or good standing in any way; and sometimes to seek it overmuch is to lose it.
Power invariably means both responsibility and danger.
Practicing will beat preaching every day of the week, even as preaching. Practice is the best kind of preaching. The best way you can preach is to practice by example.
Preparation for war is the surest guarantee for peace.
...probably next year all I can do is stand to one side as two parties, neither of which are fit to control the destinies of the Republic at this time, struggle for prominence.
Probably the best test of true love of liberty in any country is the way in which minorities are treated in that country.
Promises that are idly given and idly broken represent profound detriment to the morality of nations.
Prosperity can only permanently come to this country on a basis of honesty and fair treatment for all.
Queer, mystical creature. I did not understand one of them. But he certainly has got the real spirit of poetry in him.
Quentin is an affectionate, soft hearted, over-grown-puppy kind of a boy, absorbed in his wireless and in anything mechanical.
Reformers often lack sanity, and it is very difficult to do decent reform work, or any other kind of work, if for sanity we substitute a condition of mere morbid hysteria.
Remember that in life, and above all in the very active, practical, workaday life on this continent, the man who wins out must be the man who works.
Richard, by the way, has just deposited an earthworm on the desk beside me, stating that he had just found ‘her’ outside and intended to keep her as a pet.
Rock Creek is too beautiful for anything and the snow makes such good galloping that the riding is far better than it generally is around Washington.
Roswell is a queer horse. He usually goes like a cow, but he has kinks in him. He will suddenly stop and rear, or have a fit over an automobile.
Ruin looks us in the face if we judge a man by his position instead of judging him by his conduct in that position.
…see to it that our resources in water, and therefore in grass and timber, are used in a way which shall perpetuate and not exhaust them;...
Self-government cannot be thrust upon nations from without.
Service is the true test by which a man’s worth should be judged.
She is forty, and I do not think I deceive myself when I say that she neither looks nor acts nor feels as if she is thirty.
She kissed the three children good bye, and then me, saying to me by force of habit – “now remember to be good while I’m away!”
She seems pretty healthy considering the fact that she recently drank most of a bottle of nitre and ate a toadstool.
…she turns them out into the world so soft or ease-loving and work-shirking that they are about as well fit to hold their own as a hermit crab which has lost its shell.
Shifted camp to foothills, 1/2 of men of my regiment dead or disabled by wounds or sickness
Shiftlessness, slackness, indifference in studying, are almost certain to mean inability to get on in other walks of life.
Show me a man who makes no mistakes and I will show you a man who doesn't do things.
So lovely is it that I am utterly unable to miss the White House, and though I miss the friends I used to see at the White House, I am very glad to be home.
So on this trip I showed sedulous forethought in preparing cases for myself in the shape both of traveling companions and of places to visit.
So the training given in our public schools must be not merely a training in intellect, but a training in what counts for infinitely more than intellect - a training in the development of character.
[S]ocial consciousness is the only effective antidote to the class consciousness of the Socialist.
Somebody has to stand for the things for which I am standing, or else this country will go through one of two equally disagreeable experiences, a smash up or dry-rot.
Sometimes I feel a little melancholy because it is so hard to persuade people to accept equal justice.
Sometimes in life, both at school and afterwards, fortune will go against anyone, but if he just keeps pegging away and don’t lose his courage things always take a turn for the better in the end.
Speak softly and carry a big stick; you will go far.
…speaking generally the boy or man who does one thing with his whole heart and learns how to do it well, will do other things with his whole heart.
Stability of economic policy must always be the prime economic need of this country.
Started for Medora, Dakota, to spend the summer on my cattle ranches.
[S]trength should go hand in hand with courtesy, with scrupulous regard in word and deed, not only for the rights, but for the feelings, of other countries.
Success does not lie entirely in the hands of any one of us.
Such an employer must of course always spend a major part of his effort in achieving business success.
Teach boys and girls alike that they are not to look forward to lives spent in avoiding difficulties but to lives spent in overcoming difficulties.
Ted is amusingly jealous about you. He says ‘No Bachelor Bye now! and I don’t suppose she’ll care much for the bunnies any more!’ but I assure him she will.
Ted sends you many kisses and also several "bear waves".
Thanksgiving was an appreciated festival, but it in no way came up to Christmas. Christmas was an occasion of literally delirious joy.
That education which properly fits a people to do successfully whatever part in the world’s work comes to them is the surest means of continuing the upward progress of civilization.
That family looks all right in quality as well as in quantity.
That is the man who will keep his eyes on the stars and yet not forget that in this world of ours he must have his feet on the ground.
The "business" which is hurt by the movement for honesty is the kind of business which, in the long-run, it pays the country to have hurt.
The Age of Chivalry was lovely for the knights; but it must have at times been inexpressibly gloomy for the gentlemen who had to occasionally act in the capacity of daily bread for their betters.
The American people have steadily grown to think less and less of me, and more definitely determined not to use me in any public position.
The American true elk and reindeer were rechristened moose and caribou — excellent names, by the way, derived from the Indian.
The army and the navy are the sword and the shield which this nation must carry if she is to do her duty among the nations of the earth....
The baby, a boy, will be named Archibald Bulloch after his great-great grandfather the first Revolutionary Governor of Georgia.
The best executive is the one who has sense enough to pick good men to do what he wants done, and self restraint to keep from meddling with them while they do it.
The best product of any region is the product of its citizenship.
The birth pangs make all men the debtors of all women.
The boy can best become a good man by being a good boy-- not a goody-goody boy, but just a plain good boy.
The buildings make , I verily believe, the most beautiful architectural exhibit the world has ever seen.
The chaffinch is for you. The wren for Mamma. The cat for Conie.
The changes in the White House have transformed it from a shabby likeness to the ground floor of the Astor House into a simple and dignified dwelling for the head of a great republic.
The Chiefs receive us with great ceremony; they think I am a kind of king from the other side of the world.
The Constitution belongs to the people and not the people to the Constitution.
The Cubists are entitled to the serious attention of all who find enjoyment in the colored puzzle-pictures of the Sunday newspapers.
The deification of Jesse James is precisely like the deification of Robin Hood.
The effect that the doctor has upon the body of the patient is in very many cases no greater than the effect that he has upon the patient’s mind.
The eight-hour law does not apply to cowboys.
The enactment of a pure food law was a recognition of the fact that the public welfare outweighs the right to private gain, and that no man may poison the people for his private profit.
The extraordinary thing has been the comfort in which we have traveled. We have had no period of hardships lasting more than two or three days.
The fact remains that study itself is essential. So it is with vigorous pastimes.
The fact that eighteen cattle owners yelled on being required to be decent and conform to regulations is of no early consequences. Let them yell and make them conform to the regulations.
The family went into revolt about my slouch hat, which Quentin christened â"Old Mizzoura," and so I have had to buy another with a less pronounced crown and brim.
The first and vital point in any settlement is that might shall be put behind right...
The first does not look any more like a blacktail, and the second does not look any more like a whitetail, than a cow with a horse’s tail would look like a genuine cow.
The first lesson the backwoodsmen learnt was the necessity of self-help; the next, that such a community could only thrive if all joined in helping one another.
The first requisite of statesmanship is honesty. There is no stupidity equal to the stupidity of dishonesty.
The first six days were of the usual Presidential tour type, but much more pleasant than ordinarily because I, did not have to so quite as much speaking;
The forest reserves themselves are of extreme value to the present as well as the future welfare of all western public-lands States.
The good citizen is the man who does what can be done as well as it possibly can be done.
The good citizen will demand liberty for himself, and as a matter of pride he will see to it that others receive liberty which he thus claims as his own.
The good man who is ineffective is not able to make his goodness of much account to the people as a whole.
The great bit of work of my administration, and from the material and constructive standpoint one of the greatest bits of work that the twentieth century will see, is the Isthmian Canal.
[T]he great development of industrialism means that there must be an increase in the supervision exercised by the Government over business-enterprise.
The greatest piece of good luck that can befall any one of us is to have the chance to take part in some work worth doing, and to do it well.
…the greatest thought is robbed of an immense proportion of its value if expressed in a mean or obscure manner.
The gun was important but it was the man behind the gun that counted.
The guns turned up. They had been thoughtfully put in the center of a cloth-covered pyramid of furniture and odds and ends, which was tastefully arranged in the gun room before we left Sagamore Hill.
The highest of all happiness is the happiness of wedded lovers, of husband and wife who remain lover and sweetheart.
The influence of the wild country upon the man is almost as great as the effect of the man upon the country. The frontiersman destroys the wilderness, and yet its destruction means his own.
The issue of valueless watered stock does not come in point of morality one whit above the issuing of counterfeit money.
The law of successful national life is the law of work...
The life of duty, not the life of mere ease or pleasure-that is the kind of life which makes the great man, as it makes the great nation.
The life that is worth living and the only life that is worth living is the life of effort, the life of effort to attain what is worth striving for.
The light has gone out of my life.
The man is but a poor man wherever he may be born to whom one part of this country is not exactly as dear as any other part.
The man must freely accept the principle that the woman has exactly as much right as he has to lead her life as she wills.
The man thus attacking us is usually, like so many of his fellows, either a great lawyer, or a paid editor who takes his commands from the financiers and his arguments from their attorneys.
...the man who has the power to act is to be judged not by his words but by his acts--by his words in so far as they agree with his acts.
The man who in times of crises develops heroic virtues is the man who does not wait until the crises comes before he develops any virtues at all.
The man who lives simply, and justly and honorably, whether rich or poor, is a good citizen.
The man who seeks to inspire one set of Americans to hate another because of difference of creed, because of difference of locality, difference of occupation, or of wealth, is a curse to the republic.
The man who works, the man who does great deeds, in the end dies as surely as the veriest idler who cumbers the earth’s surface; but he leaves behind him the great fact that he has done his work well.
The man who writes poetry, or writes on Science, or holds an office for the sake of the monetary reward is in a poor business.
The material problems that face us to-day are not such as they were in Washington’s time, but the underlying facts of human nature are the same now as they were then.
The Mediterranean is the ocean of the past, the Atlantic, the ocean of the present, and the Pacific, the ocean of the future.
The men who enjoy the privileges of American citizenship, and yet seek in any way to serve some other nation which is hostile to us, are guilty of moral treason to the Republic.
The more harmoniously you work with each other, the better your work will be.
The most important single ingredient in the formula of success is knowing how to get along with people.
...the most important type of conservation is the conservation of the manhood and womanhood of the country...
The most uncomfortable truth is a safer travelling companion than the pleasantest falsehood.
The name Quentin is with us an old family name, coming from a French Huguenot refugee who came to this country over two centuries ago.
The nation behaves well if it treats its natural resources as assets which it must turn over to the next generation increased and not impaired in value.
The navy has had all the fun so far, and I only hope that peace will not be declared without giving the army a chance at both Cuba and Porto Rico [sic.] as well as the Philippines.
The old pioneer days are gone, with their roughness and their hardship, their incredible toil and their wild, half-savage romance. But the need of the pioneer virtues remains the same as ever.
The old ranch is as picturesque as ever; but it is melancholy to see it deserted.
The one all-important foundation of our system of orderly liberty is obedience to law.
[T]he one certain way to invite disaster is to be opulent, offensive, and unarmed.
The one thing upon which we must insist is ruling out questions of creed in our politics so long as the men for whom we vote are honest and in good faith Americans.
The only philanthropic work that counts in the long run is the work that helps a man help himself.
The only way in which successfully to oppose wrong which is backed by might is to put over against it right which is backed by might.
The other day I came near being drowned, for I got caught under water and was almost strangled before I could get out.
The political pot is boiling frantically, which is another way of saying that the fight is on the rate bill is growing hot.
The possibility of human folly cannot be realized except by actual experiment.
The possum arrived all right and Archie received it with such loving admiration that I gave it to him, a little to the jealousy of Ted and Kermit.
The power of the journalist is great, but he is entitled neither to respect nor admiration because of that power unless it is used aright.
The problems that confront us in this age are, after all, in their essence the same as those that have always confronted free people striving to secure and to keep free government.
The public schools are the safeguard of our nation. This is literally a fact.
The qualities which make a formidable fighting man, on sea or on shore, and which therefore make a formidable army or navy, are the same for all nations.
The reactionary is always willing to take a progressive attitude on any issue that is dead.
The right attitude in the employer, in the manager, in the big man on top, will do even more than the law…
The savage of today shows us what the fancied age of gold of our ancestors was really like; it was an age when hunger, cold, violence, and iron cruelty were the ordinary accompaniments of life.
The set of your works has come with the inscriptions in your own handwriting, and I shall prize them always.
The terrible disaster to the Maine has given me a good deal of work in the office.
The test of a man’s worth to the community is the service he renders to it, and we cannot afford to make this test by material considerations alone.
The thing that has impressed me more than anything else in addressing the different audiences is that a good American is a good American in whatever part of this country he lives.
The things in this life that are really worth having do not usually come to those who wish to lead lives of mere ease.
The training given in the public schools must of course be not merely a training in intellect, but a training in what counts for infinitely more than intellect, a training in character.
The tremendous industrial development of the nineteenth century has not only conferred great benefits upon us of the twentieth, but it has also exposed us to great dangers.
The true American has never feared to run risks when the prize to be won was of sufficient value.
The true doctrine to this nation, as to the individuals composing this nation, is not the life of ease, but the life of effort.
The true welfare of the nation is indissolubly bound up with the welfare of the farmer and the wageworker--of the man who tills the oil, and of the mechanic, the handicraftsman, the laborer.
The virtue that is cloistered, the virtue that stays at home, that sits in its own parlor and wonders why the world is so bad, does not help anyone.
The wage-worker should not only receive fair treatment; he should give fair treatment. In order that prosperity may be passed around it is necessary that the prosperity exist.
The water salamander is not a fish but as it is found in the water I will close my list with them.
The welfare of a state depends upon the character of its citizenship.
The willfully idle man, like the willfully barren woman, has no place in a sane, healthy and vigorous community.
The wise custom which limits the President to two terms regards the substance and not the form. Under no circumstances will I be a candidate for or accept another nomination.
The woman has the right to be emancipated from the position of a drudge or a toy. She is entitled to a full equality in rights with man…
The woods are now in their first flush of their beauty; the leaves a tender green, the dog-woods and Judas Trees in bloom.
The work is much pleasanter than last year. I like the zoological courses very much.
The world is getting better, but it has got a long way to travel before it becomes perfect.
The wound is a trivial one.
It is of course a mere truism to say that the stability of and future welfare of our institutions of government depend upon the grade of citizenship turned out from our public schools.
…then carry Alice down to breakfast pig-a-back. The last exercise has got Alice into the custom of invoking me, with unintentional reverence, as ‘now, pig!’
There, I did not mean to get off on the war. I wanted to tell you about x-mas…
There are a good many contemptible creatures in the world, but on the whole the most contemptible is the creature who wants to go through life bent only on having the easiest time that life can give…
There are but two women; a clumsy giggling, pretty Irish girl, and a hard featured backwoods woman who sings Methodist hymns and swears like a trooper on occasions.
There are certain kinds of work, public service, letters, science, where the highest work can only be done if done wholly without regard to the monetary equivalent.
There are many qualities which we need in order to gain success, but the three above all—for the lack of which no brilliancy and no genius can atone—are Courage, Honesty and Common Sense.
There are plenty of tendencies for evil in what we see round about us. Thank heaven, there are an even greater number of tendencies for good,…
There are some ticklish things coming up in connection with the Newfoundland fisheries, and there is always the possibility of its being really important to have a good man here.
There can be no compromise on the great fundamental principles of morality.
There can be no greater mistake than to suppose that discipline is inimical to the development of individual character.
There is a funny little lizard that comes in to my tent, and is quite tame now; he jumps almost like a little frog, and puffs his throat out.
There is but one real way in which any man can be helped, and that is by teaching him to help himself.
There is just one chance of safety for this Republic and that is for all of us to be Americans and nothing else.
There is much less need of genius or any special brilliancy in the administration of our government than there is need of such homely virtues and qualities as common sense, honesty, and courage.
There is no duty as important as the duty of taking care that the boys and girls are so trained as to make the highest type of men and women in the future.
There is no gift I could appreciate more; and I wish it were in my power fully to express my gratitude.
There is no greater delusion than the belief that a lawyer is, per se, also a statesman.
There is no issue at this election so important as to support Gooding against those dynamiters and thugs.
There is no need of your feeling that you intruded upon me. I am here to be intruded upon in just such ways.
There is no need to be a prig. There is no need for a boy to preach about his own good conduct and virtue. If he does he will make himself offensive and ridiculous.
There is quite enough sorrow and shame and suffering and baseness in real life, and there is no need for meeting it unnecessarily in fiction.
There is no room for no half and half loyalty in this country...
There is so great a charm in absolute solitude, in the wild, lonely freedom of the great plains, that often I would make some excuse and go off entirely by myself.
There is very little water, and what there is, is so bitter as to be almost a poison, and nearly undrinkable; it is so alkaline that the very cow’s milk tastes of it.
There's nothing in the world that equals the happiness that comes to lovers who remain lovers all through their wedded lives.
There was scant room for the coward and the weakling in the ranks of the adventurous frontiersman.
There were days last spring when it was almost or quite impossible to get a motor up the hill, and particularly during mid-day while the thaw was on.
There were two bodies which were always gathered to meet me-- the veterans and the school children.
Therefore a ruler must take great care that no word shall slip from his mouth that shall not be full of piety, trust, humanity, religion, and simple faith...
Therefore it behooves us to do our best to see that the standard of the average citizen is kept high; and the average cannot be kept high unless the standard of the leaders is very much higher.
These "robber knight" castles are so close together that I always wonder where there was room for the other people whom the Robber Knights robbed.
These midnight rambles are great fun.
They [children] are quick to take the tone of those to whom they look up, and if they do not look up to you, then you can preach virtue all you wish, the effect will be small.
They are a great force for producing good citizenship.
They attack you because they know your honesty and fearlessness, and dread them.
...they evidently ignored such a trifling detail as the United States Constitution.
They had high individual manners not like wrens at all.
They had to have fervent devotion to country, devotion to the right, and power to fight.
They loved the fireworks—silly Kermit remarking, with an eye to edibles, that perhaps he might "eat the firecrackers!" The name struck him as suggestive.
…they say a stout, elderly President cannot afford to take chances!
They were men of facts, not theories; and they showed their usual hard common-sense in making a government.
They were thoroughly pleasant, homelike people...
They would like to see me put in the Vice Presidency because they think I will be harmless there.
This country will not be a good place for any of us to live in if it is not a reasonably good place for all of us to live in.
This great big house is a paradise for them; much the pleasantest winter home they have ever had. Of course nothing can ever begin to come up to Sagamore Hill in their eyes!
This is a hard blow to you, and you can best show the stuff that is in you by the way you bear it.
This is just an occasion to show the stuff there is in you.
This is my 60th birthday; I am glad to be sixty, for it somehow gives me the right to be titularly as old as I feel.
This is not a time for talk; it is a time for action.
This is the 32d anniversary of Mother's and my engagement day! And I really think I am just as much in love with her now as I was then—she is so wise and good and pretty and charming.
This is the first battle fleet that has ever circumnavigated the Globe. Those who perform the feat again can but follow in your footsteps.
This morning I had a dreadful letter from Elliot. The horrible part is it is quite a sane letter, but with a hideous lack of moral sensibility about it.
This was the era when the Standard Oil Company achieved a mastery of Pennsylvania politics so far-reaching and so corrupt that it is difficult to describe it without seeming to exaggerate.
This whole incident has served one temporarily useful purpose, for it has entirely revived me. I was feeling jaded and tired.
This will carry out the purpose of the founder of the prize; for in modern life it is as important to work for the cause of just and righteous peace in the industrial world as in the world of nations.
Throughout our history, the success of the home-maker has been but another name for the upbuilding of the nation.
To borrow a simile from the football filed, the game must be played fair, there must be no shirking, and success can only come to the player who “hits the line hard.”
To educate a person in mind and not in morals is to educate a menace to society.
To invite reaction by unregulated zeal is never wise, and is sometimes fatal.
…to learn any thing from the past it is necessary to know, as near as may be, the exact truth.
To me, the question of the man's profession is so wholly unimportant compared to the question of the man himself, and of the girl's being in love with him, that I don't regard it at all.
To me Owen Wister is the writer I wish when I am hungry with memories of lonely mountains.
To my mind this building of the canal through Panama will rank in kind, though not of course in degree, with the Louisiana purchase [sic] and the acquisition of Texas.
To my pleasure Mother greatly enjoyed the fried chicken, and admitted that what you children had said of the way I fried chicken was all true.
To receive money for making peace would in any event be a little too much like being given money for rescuing a man from drowning, or for performing a daring feat in war.
To treat elocution as a substitute for caution, to rely upon high-sounding words unbacked by deeds, is proof of a mind that dwells only in the realm of shadow and of shame.
To turn from things that are sad—and everything public seems to me to be in uncomfortable shape at the present time—we are very fortunate indeed as regards all the people that are dear to us.
To you and your kind much has been given, and from you much should be expected.
Today is rainy and I look forward with gloomy foreboding to a play in the barn with the smallest folks this afternoon.
Tolstoy is an interesting and stimulating writer but an exceedingly unsafe moral adviser.
Tomorrow the National Convention meets, and barring a cataclysm I shall be nominated.
Toward all other nations, large and small, our attitude must be one of cordial and sincere friendship.
Townsman and farmer, employer and employed, we must make up our minds that we shall rise or fall together.
Train your children not how to avoid difficulties but how to overcome them; train your children not to shirk what is hard and disagreeable but to do it and to do it well.
True liberty shows itself to best advantage in protecting the rights of others, and especially of minorities.
Truth telling is a virtue upon which we should not only insist in the schools and at home, but in business and politics just as much.
Uncle Sam has slept too long. Let him awake and at the earliest moment harden and use his giant but lazy strength.
Unconsciously, I always find I am trying to model myself with my children on the way he was with us.
Under our form of government voting is not merely a right but a duty, and, moreover,  a fundamental and necessary duty if a man is to be a good citizen.
Under such circumstances, our duty is to do the best we can, and not to sulk because our leadership is rejected.
Unjust war is to be abhorred; but woe to the nation that does not make ready to hold its own in time of need against all who would harm it!
Unless the man is master of his soul all other kinds of mastery amount to little.
...unless we are Americans and nothing else, we are not a nation at all--
Until our republic was founded it had proved impossible in the long run to combine freedom for the individual and greatness for the nation.
Until railroads are built there is nothing the community will not promise in order to get them in.
Until she has been worn out seasickness only makes her look peculiarly bright and healthy.
Virtue by itself, though, is not enough, or anything like enough. Strength must be added to it, and the determination to use that strength.
Washington is just a big village, but it is a very pleasant big village.
We all look forward to the day when there shall be a nearer approximation than there has ever been to the brotherhood of man and the peace of the world.
…we all of us feel, most rightly and properly, that we belong to the greatest nation that has ever existed on the earth…
We also had not a little fighting to do on land, in which, as a rule, we came out second-best. Few or no preparations for the war had been made, and the result was such as might have been anticipated.
We Americans are prone to divide our efforts too much.
We are Americans and nothing else. We are the true children of the crucible.
We are at the height of the social season, and as formal social entertainments are rather a nightmare to me, I look forward eagerly to its ending.
We are neither for the rich man as such nor the poor man as such; we are for the upright man, rich or poor.
We are not building this country of ours for a day. It is to last through the ages.
We are not second rate Englishmen or transplanted Germans or Irishmen – we are Americans and nothing else.
We are one; and we will tolerate no effort to divide us.
We are prouder of our citizenship because he is our fellow citizen; we feel that his life and his writings, both alike spur us steadily to fresh effort toward high thinking and right living.
We believe that if given a fair chance the people will declare against both political and financial privilege.
We boys assisted by firing roman candles, flower pots and bengolas. We each got his fair share of burns.
We boys assisted by firing Roman Candles, flowerpots and bengolas.  We each got his fair share of burns.
We came upon their camp by surprise and, covering them with our cocked rifles, held them up and disarmed them in the most approved western fashion.
We camped by an excellent spring of cold, clear water - not a common luxury in the Bad Lands.
We can get good government only upon condition that we keep true to the principles on which this Nation was founded, and judge each man not as part of a class, but upon his individual merits.
We can no more afford to lose social and civic decency and honesty than we can afford to lose the qualities of courage and strength.
We cannot amalgamate with either of the old boss-ridden, privilege-controlled parties.
We cannot claim the privileges of freedom unless we exercise the duties of freedom.
We cannot retain the full measure of our self respect if we cannot retain pride in our citizenship.
We cannot trust the mere doctrinaire; we cannot trust the mere closet reformer, nor his acrid brother who himself does nothing, but who rails at those who endure the heat and burden of the day.
We come from many peoples, but we come here together as Americans, and nothing else.
We could never afford to take overmuch thought for the outsides of books; we were too much interested in their insides.
We found that we had a job to do and we did it, and we did it well.
We had a beautiful passage; very nearly as gay as a funeral.
We had a bully fight at Santiago, and though there was an immense amount that I did not exactly enjoy, the charge itself was great fun.
We had a very interesting, but rather hard trip.
We had plenty of meat, and the naturalists had enough specimens; and I was glad that there was no need to harm the beautiful creatures.
...we had some beautiful singing in which I did not join, remembering the remark of a friend, that I resembled a cormorant in one other particular beside my appetite; viz, my voice.
We have a young mountain lion in camp, which the Arizona cowboys brought on to give good luck to the regiment. It is rather cross.
We have all been delighted with the little bear cartoons. I begin to feel as if it was like those special signs of the early Egyptian kings...
We have driven Spanish tyranny from the islands. If we now let it be replaced by savage anarchy, our work has been for harm and not for good.
We have had a rather vivid week with our measles patients, they being numerous, and the rooms of this house rather less so.
We have had a rough campaign and this regiment has lost over half the men with which it landed, killed, wounded or stricken down by disease – chiefly fever.
We have had the very finest people with us. We have waged a battle for the highest ideals and we have waged it on the loftiest plane, so that from this standpoint there is nothing to be ashamed of.
We have had very good fun so far, in spite of a succession of untoward accidents and delays. I broke both my guns, Elliot dented his, and the shooting was not as good as expected.
We have no place in our American society for the man or the woman who fails to appreciate the need of effort, the need of work to justify his or her existence.
We have paid too little heed to the experience of other great nations in achieving reforms which have worked a complete revolution in their administration.
We have some very friendly hounds with us; as I have petted them, they now feel distinctly hurt if I decline to hold their paws while I am shaving…
We hope to sail tonight for Cuba, that is, eight troops dismounted. We do not like having to leave the remainder and having to leave our horses, but we would rather crawl on all fours than not go.
We inherit as free men this fair and mighty land only because our fathers and forefathers had iron in their blood.
We intend to try to help others but we know well that we cannot do so, unless we are able to do justice within our own borders and to manage well the affairs of our own household.
We liked the excitement and perpetual conflict, the necessity for putting forth all our powers to reach our ends, and the feeling that we were really being of some use in the world…
We live in a rough world and good work in it can be done only by those who are not afraid to do their part in the dust and smoke of the arena.
We must act with wisdom or else our adherence to right will be mere sound and fury without substance...
…we must equally avoid the errors of the bigotry that persecutes in the name of religion, and of the equally dangerous bigotry that persecutes religion in the name of freedom.
We must have a high degree of education in the average citizen or we are not going to be able to solve a right the great problems presented to us.
We must have clean and decent government; we must have good laws; we must have decent officials to make and to execute the laws.
We must never again permit the wageworker to be looked on primarily as a mere cog in the industrial machine.
We must remember that the republic can only be kept pure by the individual purity of its members, and that if it once becomes thoroughly corrupt it will surely cease to exist.
We must try and win the war as quickly as possible, and we must resolve to continue it no matter how long it takes, until it is crowned by the peace of overwhelming victory.
We need courage, we need decency, and we need the saving grace of common sense.
We need in this country different parties which honestly differ and which fearlessly state their convictions; but they must all first and foremost be American, and nothing but American.
We need to keep our faces steadily toward the sun. You can change the simile, to keep our eyes to the stars, but remember that our feet have got to be on the ground.
We only have the right to live on as free men, so long as we show ourselves worthy of the privileges we enjoy.
We ought to drive the Spaniards out of Cuba; and it would be a good thing, in more ways than one, to do it.
We owe it to future generations to keep alive the noble and beautiful creatures which by their presence add such distinctive character to the American wilderness.
We put up for the night at the first farm house that would take us in, and traveled all day long in the wagon over the great, treeless, fenceless prairie.
We recognize in neither court nor Congress nor President, any divine right to overrule the will of the people expressed with due deliberation in orderly fashion and through the forms of law.
We regard the present contest not as a contest between individuals ...but a contest between these two radically different views of the function of politics in a great democracy.
We saw the prisons of Nero. They were the most dreary, damp and uncomfortable things you could imagine.
We shall have four or five days bear hunting in the Mississippi canebrakes a fortnight hence if luck favors me.
We should not take part in acting a lie any more than in telling a lie.
We sincerely and earnestly believe in peace; but if peace and justice conflict, we scorn the man who would not stand for justice though the whole world came in arms against him.
We want to emphasize that we are the heirs of Lincoln’[s] principles and policies, that he is our man…
We will never justify the existence of the Republic by merely talking about what the Republic has done each Fourth of July.
We worked under the scorching midsummer sun, when the wide plains shimmered and wavered in the heat; and we knew the freezing misery of riding night guard round the cattle in the late fall round-up.
Well, my troubles will be domestic I suppose for the next few months.
Well, there is no telling what the new year has in store; the hand of fate may be heavy upon us but we can be sure that it will not take away our pride in our boys.
Well, this campaign proved as exciting and as dangerous as any of our African hunts!
Well, we have gone down in a smashing defeat; whether it is a Waterloo or a Bull Run, time only can tell.
Well it seems to me that the Russian bubble has been pretty thoroughly pricked.
Went on to New York for Thanksgiving.
Went out after deer; saw nothing. Boat being built. River very high; ice piled up on banks several feet.
What is needed for the ordinary voter is plain, ordinary commonsense.
What is past is past & men need not forget it; yet with the enormous bulk of men it is right and necessary that they should turn to the instant need of the present.
What is past is past and men need not forget it; yet with the enormous bulk of men it is right and necessary that they should turn to the instant need of the present.
What snobs the Hays are!
Whatever comes I am profoundly satisfied, and shall always remain so, with having made a creditable record as Colonel and I trust as Governor. It is something to leave the children.
When any sport is carried on primarily for money—that is, as a business—it is in danger of losing much that is valuable, and of acquiring some exceedingly undesirable characteristics.
When any sport is carried on primarily for moneyâ€”that is, as a businessâ€”it is in danger of losing much that is valuable, and of acquiring some exceedingly undesirable characteristics.
When I went among strangers I always had to spend twenty-four hours in living down the fact that I wore spectacles, remaining as long as I could judiciously deaf to any side remarks about "four eyes."
[W]hen men are thus entirely loyal to this country it is an outrage to discriminate, or permit discrimination against them, because of where their fathers or they themselves were born.
When off in the wilderness they were obliged to take a man for what he did, not for what he thought.
When one is in the Badlands, he feels as if they somehow look just exactly as Poe's tale and poems sound.
When people have become very prosperous they tend to become sluggishly indifferent to the continuation of the policies that brought about their prosperity.
When you and I had the chance we did our duty, although it was on an infinitely smaller scale.
Where possible it is always better to mediate before the strike begins than to try to arbitrate when the fight is on and both sides have grown stubborn and bitter.
Whether he commits wrong in the name of order or of liberty, of religion or of freedom of thought, matters nothing ; I am against the wrong-doer.
While on this trip Kermit passed his twentieth birthday. While still nineteen he had killed all the kinds of African dangerous game – lion, leopard, elephant, buffalo, and rhino.
Why do you use “autumn” instead of our own more beautiful word “fall”?
Wise labor legislation for the city of Washington would be a good thing in itself, and it would be a far better thing, because a standard would thereby be a set for the country as a whole.
With infinite labor and by the exercise of a good deal of tact and judgement--if I do say so myself--I have finally gotten the Japanese and Russians to agree to meet to discuss the terms of peace.
With most men courage is largely an acquired habit...
With the life I have led it is unlikely that I shall retain vigor to a very advanced age, and I want to be a man of action as long as I can.
Within 24 hours we should be given means to purchase every good battleship, cruiser and torpedo-boat that there is for sale in any part of the world.
Woe to all of us if ever as a people we grow to condone evil because it is successful.
Women should have access to every field of labor which they care to enter, and when their work is as valuable as that of a man it should be paid as highly.
Women should have free access to every field of labor which they care to enter, and when their work is as valuable as that of a man it should be paid as highly.
Work, the capacity for work, is absolutely necessary; and no man’s life is full, no man can be said to live in the true sense of the word if he does not work.
Yes, my friend, and if you will steal for me then you will steal from me.
You, the sons of the pioneers, if you are true to your ancestry, must make your lives as worthy as they made theirs.
You are bound in honor to make my judgment good.
You are certainly the most loyal friend that ever breathed.
You are one of the few remaining men who led the life of the frontier in the days of the Indian and the buffalo. It was a most characteristic phase of American life.
You cannot cleanse the leper. Beware lest you taint yourselves with his leprosy.
You do not know how lonesome we all are without the sweet little mother, and how we miss her at the breakfast table.
You have falsified every prediction of the prophets of failure…
You have taught us both by what you did on the tented fields, and by what you have done since in civic life, how this spirit of brotherhood can be made a living, vital force.
You must have the faculty not merely of doing right and of being fearless and strong, but of knowing how to handle yourself.
You who came here and made this state great,  you could have done nothing if it had not been that you had cool heads, stout hands, strong hearts.
You win, not by shirking difficulties, but by facing and overcoming them.
You would be amused to see me, in my sombrero hat, fringed and beaded buckskin shirt, horse hide chaparajos or riding trousers, and cowhide boots, with braided bridle and silver spurs.
